README.md, before:

# Debate Map

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/DebateMap/Lobby](https://badges.gitter.im/DebateMap/Lobby.svg)](https://gitter.im/DebateMap/Lobby?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
[![See the task list at https://trello.com/b/7ZhagPiN](https://img.shields.io/badge/tasks-on%20trello-blue.svg)](https://trello.com/b/7ZhagPiN)

The [Debate Map](https://debatemap.live) project is an innovative new platform for presenting and analyzing beliefs (or "theses") and the arguments that support them. Its content is crowd-sourced (like Wikipedia), and the software is open-source (under MIT), promoting collaborative development and increased accountability.

There are three types of maps present on the site: personal maps, debate maps, and [the global map](https://debatemap.live/global).

The below is a screenshot from the global map:
![See the task list at https://trello.com/b/7ZhagPiN](/Info/Images/Screenshot1.png)

The tree-like structure assists in traversing the various lines of evidence: at each level, there is a "thesis" (blue) which makes a claim, and a set of simple "arguments" (green and red) which support/oppose it. By keeping the forms of these arguments simple, we're able to match them (in many cases) with the basic forms of logical arguments (modus ponens, etc.), permitting quick evaluation of the logical connections -- this saves time, and lets us focus on the underlying chain of evidence instead of parsing statement meanings.

For more information, visit the website at: <https://debatemap.live>

### Workspace setup

1) Clone the repo to disk: <https://github.com/Venryx/DebateMap.git>
2) Run `npm install` in the root project folder.
3) Revert the `node_modules` folder. (it has some git-tracked modifications, which get overwritten during `npm install`)

Recommended editor: [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com)  
Recommended browser: [Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome)

Note that I haven't actually verified the project works on a fresh clone, so if it fails for you, I probably just forgot a step or two, so make an issue describing where you're stuck.

### Firebase setup + project config

1) Create two Google Firebase projects -- one for development, one for production.
2) Edit the `.firebaserc` and `config/environments.js` files, replacing their paths and data with your own.
3) Add at least one form of authentication to your Firebase projects. (Google sign-in is easiest)
4) Run the project locally. (see "Running locally" section below)
5) Sign in once (using the panel at the top-right), then check the database and copy your user ID.
6) Go to the "More>Admin" page, and press "Reset database".
7) Add the following data to the database using Firebase management:
```
{
	userExtras: {
		[your user id]: {
			permissionGroups: {basic: true, verified: true, mod: true, admin: true}
		}
	}
}
```

### Running locally

1) Run `npm run dev` in the root project folder.
2) Navigate to `localhost:3000`.

Note that if you add/remove/modify any modules required from `config/Vendors.js`, you'll then need to run `npm run create-vendors`. (those modules are compiled separately, to speed up the main compile process)

### Deploying to Firebase

1) Run `tsc` in a console, and keep it running in the background. (this reduces quick-deploy compile times from ~59s to ~32s, by enabling incremental compilation)
2) Run `npm run [quick-]deploy-[dev/prod]`. Quick-deploy time is ~32s, instead of ~86s for full (since it doesn't use minification and such). Dev/prod depends on which Firebase project you're targeting (as configured above).

Commit message:

* Added "editor setup" section to README.md. * Added ESLint config file, and got it setup in vscode.
Former-commit-id: 69794f8b6afe72d6b01f1cb1b2a686c227a94b30

README.md, after:

# Debate Map

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/DebateMap/Lobby](https://badges.gitter.im/DebateMap/Lobby.svg)](https://gitter.im/DebateMap/Lobby?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
[![See the task list at https://trello.com/b/7ZhagPiN](https://img.shields.io/badge/tasks-on%20trello-blue.svg)](https://trello.com/b/7ZhagPiN)

The [Debate Map](https://debatemap.live) project is an innovative new platform for presenting and analyzing beliefs (or "theses") and the arguments that support them. Its content is crowd-sourced (like Wikipedia), and the software is open-source (under MIT), promoting collaborative development and increased accountability.

There are three types of maps present on the site: personal maps, debate maps, and [the global map](https://debatemap.live/global).

The below is a screenshot from the global map:
![See the task list at https://trello.com/b/7ZhagPiN](/Info/Images/Screenshot1.png)

The tree-like structure assists in traversing the various lines of evidence: at each level, there is a "thesis" (blue) which makes a claim, and a set of simple "arguments" (green and red) which support/oppose it. By keeping the forms of these arguments simple, we're able to match them (in many cases) with the basic forms of logical arguments (modus ponens, etc.), permitting quick evaluation of the logical connections -- this saves time, and lets us focus on the underlying chain of evidence instead of parsing statement meanings.

For more information, visit the website at: <https://debatemap.live>

### Workspace setup

1) Clone the repo to disk: <https://github.com/Venryx/DebateMap.git>
2) Run `npm install` in the root project folder.
3) Revert the `node_modules` folder. (it has some git-tracked modifications, which get overwritten during `npm install`)

Note that I haven't actually verified the project works on a fresh clone, so if it fails for you, I probably just forgot a step or two, so make an issue describing where you're stuck.

For recommended setup of your code editor and other tools, see: [Editor setup](#editor-setup)

### Firebase setup + project config

1) Create two Google Firebase projects -- one for development, one for production.
2) Edit the `.firebaserc` and `config/environments.js` files, replacing their paths and data with your own.
3) Add at least one form of authentication to your Firebase projects. (Google sign-in is easiest)
4) Run the project locally. (see "Running locally" section below)
5) Sign in once (using the panel at the top-right), then check the database and copy your user ID.
6) Go to the "More>Admin" page, and press "Reset database".
7) Add the following data to the database using Firebase management:
```
{
	userExtras: {
		[your user id]: {
			permissionGroups: {basic: true, verified: true, mod: true, admin: true}
		}
	}
}
```

### Running locally

1) Run `npm run dev` in the root project folder.
2) Navigate to `localhost:3000`.

Note that if you add/remove/modify any modules required from `config/Vendors.js`, you'll then need to run `npm run create-vendors`. (those modules are compiled separately, to speed up the main compile process)

### Deploying to Firebase

1) Run `tsc` in a console, and keep it running in the background. (this reduces quick-deploy compile times from ~59s to ~32s, by enabling incremental compilation)
2) Run `npm run [quick-]deploy-[dev/prod]`. Quick-deploy time is ~32s, instead of ~86s for full (since it doesn't use minification and such). Dev/prod depends on which Firebase project you're targeting (as configured above).

### Editor setup

The below are optional recommendations on your editor setup, which will make editing the project more efficient and less error-prone. (since it matches the setup I use)

Browser: [Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome)  
Editor: [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com)  
VSCode extensions:
* [ESLint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint): Shows warnings when code does not match the project's coding style.
* [TypeScript Importer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint): Lets you press alt+enter to auto-import the current symbol from whatever module it's in.
* [TypeScript Hero](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rbbit.typescript-hero): Same as above. This one's not quite as nice, but picks up some that the above misses. Also, it has an "import all missing" command.
* [Search node_modules](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=jasonnutter.search-node-modules): Very helpful for quickly opening files in modules under `node_modules`.
